Each of my questions and their possible answers are based on some of the most appalling facts that I have learned from our readings. Questions 1, 2, and 3 are based on Ovid’s Ars Amatoria. Question 1 relates to Ovid’s advice regarding persistence, that men should continue to pursue women that they are interested in even after they have been rejected by following them around, because “she wants what she doesn’t ask” (Ov. Ars 1.479-504). Question 2 relates to Ovid’s advice regarding what men should do at sporting events, which are prime spots to develop relations with women. He states that men should brush away specks, or the absence of specks, from her bosom, applaud for the same horse as she is cheering for, and never allow another man to touch their woman (Ov. Ars 1.142-158). Question 3 relates to Ovid’s advice regarding dinner parties, another ideal spot to meet women. He states that men must regulate the amount of alcohol they drink and must wait for the daylight to judge a woman’s beauty, considering the lamplight is deceiving (Ov. Ars 1.245-252, 589-600). Question 4 is based on Martial’s Epigrams, and relates to how Philaenis was deemed unable to behave like a man because she was acting too masculine. This hyper masculinity was characterized by her actions performing oral sex on young women, and her abilities in “swinging weights that studs would find heavy” and “wolfing down sixteen meatballs” (Martial, 7.67). Questions 5 and 6 are based on Richlin’s “Pliny’s brassiere”. Question 5 relates to Pliny’s advice regarding aphrodisiacs targeted towards individuals who wanted to influence another’s sexual desires without their knowledge. He states that placing a southernwood sprig under a pillow will do this, and to stay away from the seeds of willow trees, which will make women have abortions (Richlin, 236-238). Question 6 relates to Pliny’s advice regarding remedies to help women conceive regardless of whether they want to or not. He states that taking hairs from the tail of a female mule while she engages in intercourse and weaving them together during sex will help, but to never have sex with a woman while she is menstruating, considering menstrual blood kills men (Richlin, 231-238). Question 7 is based on Propertius’ poetry and relates to Propertius’ decision to play with his mistress’ hair and slide apples in her hands, entertaining his own fantasies and making sure not to wake her up, when he finds her sleeping (Prop. 1.3.1-46). Question 8 is based on Plutarch’s Life of Mark Antony, and relates to how Mark Antony was seen as defying gender norms when he followed Cleopatra to Egypt and dressed up as a slave-woman to entertain her rather than stay with his family (Plut. Ant. 25.5-28.1, 29).

This project has allowed me to conclude that ancient Roman men resorted to dealing with situations involving women, whether it be their wives, mistresses, or prospects, in outrageous, highly illogical ways in order to uphold standards of dominance over women and reaffirm themselves as masculine, ideal men. As we can see, many of the ways that men went about navigating issues regarding women involved completely disregarding the woman’s feelings and thoughts, and instead forcefully inflicting their own wants and desires onto them. In order for this to be viewed as acceptable in ancient Roman society, these men seemingly fabricated ways to dominate women in all situations. For example, men preached solutions to dealing with women that involved touching them, stalking them, having sexual intercourse with them, and forcing them to conceive without the woman’s consent. This absolute ignorance of women’s opinions and the construction of remedies and practices to further control them and their bodies conveys how important and expected it was that men asserted control over female autonomy, which in turn upheld acceptable standards of masculinity in ancient Rome.

